# Applications

## About Applications

Applications API is a new API to work with UI applications in Kazoo, it replaces the old deprecated
[App Store](./apps_store.md) API to interacting with UI applications documents.

New application doc now have a field to show the UI type of the applications, this allows
to get apps list for different UI, for example Commland UI or Monster UI.

This API endpoint provide functionality for:

- master/reseller account manipulating the apps metadata and blocklists in their account
- any admin user: can see the available apps to their account, and controlling who from their account have access to what app
- end users: can access apps they are allowed, useful to be used by UI to list in app selector

### Introduction to apps

Kazoo provides mechanism to control access to the UI apps. For this, all UI apps metadata
must be stored in Kazoo database. UI applications metadata are added to master account by system
administrator. This can be done either through API or UI App started via 2600Hz Marketplace.

#### Publish and block apps

Master account and reseller account can control what apps are available to their
sub-accounts.

Apps metadata can have `published` field, which allows master account and reseller control if the app
is available to their sub-accounts. This fields does not mean the app is enabled or
activate for the account. Only that the app is published and available so admins of
sub-accounts can list and enabled them by creating entitlement.

The publish field can be controlled by:

1. `published` field in app metadata: Master account can set it, default value is `true`.
2. Master or reseller can block an app by using [API provided here](#blocklist)
3. Master or reseller can can set allowed and blocked apps in service plan assigned to their sub-accounts,
   by using the top  `applications` field in service plan. It is an object with key being App ID and
   value is another object, with `publish` field as a boolean. For example, given the `published` field
   of an app metadata is `true`, master or reseller can use service plan to block the app for their sub-accounts.

If reseller is overriding the master's app metadta, they can not set `published` field if the app exists
on master account. `published` field from master account always have priority.

Master and reseller accounts can block apps in for their subaccounts using [Blocklist](#blocklist).

#### Entitlement

Each account admin regardless of the type account, can list the available app to their
account. They can then entitle their account's user to access the app. See
[Entitlements](#entitlements) below for more info.

### App Metadata

All UI applications must provide a metadata file either in packaging.
2600Hz UI app packages all have a file at `/path/to/where/the/app/is/installed/metadata/app.json`.

This metadata MUST have a unique ID. This ID can be generated by 2600Hz Marketplace if
the developer choose to publish their app from there.

>  **NOTE**  An App ID **CANNOT** be changed after it is assigned.

We are currently working on a guideline on how to generate UUID and its format. Please check
this documentation in future. But for now, if you are generating an ID for yourself, we recommend to use
UUID format to guaranty that the ID is unique universally.

All icons and screenshots also must be provided alongside the metadata and be stored in
master/reseller account along side their metadata data.

Reseller accounts can add new apps to their account and offer it to their sub-accounts.
They can also override an app from master. For this they need an App ID. If there is an
app in master account with the same App ID, its parameters gets merged with master, and if
the App ID doesn't exists a new app is created in the reseller account.

### App Internationalization (i18n)

App documents may have internationalization of their metadata like description or name/label or screenshots. The language code is a standard language-country format like `en-US`.

!!! note
    For en-US lang, `icon` and `screenshot` in `i18n.en-US` section of app document has priority over their counterparts on the root of the document. For example if screenshots defined in both places ONLY values from `i18n.en-US.screenshots` is used!

When working with icon and/or screenshots, you can use a specific language, by adding `/i18n/{LANG_CODE}` to the URL.

For fetch, when the value is missing from i18n section for that language, the value from default language `en-US` will be used, and if that is also missing the value from the root of document will be used.


#### Schema

UI application metadata schema



Key | Description | Type | Default | Required | Support Level
--- | ----------- | ---- | ------- | -------- | -------------
`api_url` | Optional API URL that application can use. default to Kazoo Crossbar API | `string(7..)` |   | `false` |  
`author` | Name of app publisher | `string(2..64)` |   | `true` |  
`i18n` | Application translation | `object()` |   | `false` |  
`icon` | Name of application icon | `string()` |   | `false` |  
`license` | Application license | `string()` |   | `true` |  
`masqueradable` | Whether an application is masqueradable or not | `boolean()` | `true` | `false` |  
`name` | Application name | `string(3..64)` |   | `true` |  
`phase` | Application test phase | `string('alpha' \| 'beta' \| 'gold')` |   | `false` |  
`price` | Application price | `number()` |   | `false` |  
`published` | Indicated if the app is published | `boolean()` | `true` | `false` |  
`screenshots.[]` |   | `string()` |   | `false` |  
`screenshots` |   | `array(string())` |   | `false` |  
`source_url` | an URL which indicates where the UI must load the application source files | `string()` |   | `false` |  
`tags.[]` |   | `string()` |   | `false` |  
`tags` |   | `array(string())` |   | `false` |  
`type` | Type of application that can be used, for example commland_ui, monster_ui | `string(2..64)` |   | `true` |  
`urls` |   | `object()` |   | `false` |  
`version` | Application version | `string()` |   | `true` |  

### app_i18n

Application translation


Key | Description | Type | Default | Required | Support Level
--- | ----------- | ---- | ------- | -------- | -------------
`[a-z]{2}\-[A-Z]{2}.description` | Application Summary | `string(3..)` |   | `false` |  
`[a-z]{2}\-[A-Z]{2}.extended_description` | Application extended description | `string()` |   | `false` |  
`[a-z]{2}\-[A-Z]{2}.features.[]` |   | `string()` |   | `false` |  
`[a-z]{2}\-[A-Z]{2}.features` | Application features list | `array(string())` |   | `false` |  
`[a-z]{2}\-[A-Z]{2}.icon` | Application icon name | `string()` |   | `false` |  
`[a-z]{2}\-[A-Z]{2}.label` | Application label | `string(3..64)` |   | `false` |  
`[a-z]{2}\-[A-Z]{2}.screenshots.[]` |   | `string()` |   | `false` |  
`[a-z]{2}\-[A-Z]{2}.screenshots` | Application screenshot names | `array(string())` |   | `false` |  
`[a-z]{2}\-[A-Z]{2}.urls` | Application urls | `object()` |   | `false` |  
`[a-z]{2}\-[A-Z]{2}` |   | `object()` |   | `false` |  



## Managing the application metadata

This API is intended to be used only by master account or reseller account admin
users. Here reseller account can use this API to add a new app to offer to their sub-accounts.
Reseller can also use this to override an app offerring from master account for their
sub-accounts.

### Summary

> GET /v2/accounts/{RESELLER_ACCOUNT_ID}/applications/

List a summary of applications metadata defined in the account `{RESELLER_ACCOUNT_ID}`.

```shell
curl -v -X GET \
    -H "X-Auth-Token: {AUTH_TOKEN}" \
    http://{SERVER}:8000/v2/accounts/{RESELLER_ACCOUNT_ID}/applications
```

**Success response example:**

```json
{
  "page_size": 1,
  "metadata": {},
  "data": [
    {
      "id": "edfd59e0b5c65aabb6d701901f4dfd37",
      "name": "avocado_toast",
      "type": "commland_ui"
    }
  ],
  "status": "success"
}
```

### Fetch app metadata by ID

> GET /v2/accounts/{RESELLER_ACCOUNT_ID}/applications/application/{APP_ID}

```shell
curl -v -X GET \
    -H "X-Auth-Token: {AUTH_TOKEN}" \
    http://{SERVER}:8000/v2/accounts/{RESELLER_ACCOUNT_ID}/applications/application/{APP_ID}
```

**Success response example:**

```json
{
  "metadata": {
    "id": "edfd59e0b5c65aabb6d701901f4dfd37",
    "created": 63854068906,
    "modified": 63855116932
  },
  "data": {
    "version": "1.0",
    "urls": {
      "howto": "https://youtube.com",
      "documentation": "https://avocado_toasts.com/doc"
    },
    "type": "commland_ui",
    "tags": [
      "end_user"
    ],
    "screenshots": [],
    "price": 0,
    "name": "avocado_toasts",
    "masqueradable": true,
    "license": "-",
    "icon": "icon.png",
    "i18n": {
      "en-US": {
        "label": "Avocado Toasts",
        "description": "Avocado Toasts"
      }
    },
    "author": "Imaginary Cool Company",
    "id": "edfd59e0b5c65aabb6d701901f4dfd37"
  },
  "status": "success"
}
```

### Create a new application

Master account or a reseller can create a new app using this API. The App ID must be a
unique in the whole system. App that is being distributed by Marketplace will have their
unique ID.

If reseller account tries to create an App with the same App ID provided by master account,
the uploaded payload will be merged with the metadata of the app from master account and
the result will be saved in the reseller account.

The ID must be unique, currently we recommend to use UUID format. Or you can use the
2600Hz Marketplace to generate a unique ID for your app.

App ID **CANNOT** be changed after this.

The payload is the same as `metadata/app.json` file from your app source file.

When merging with master account apps, please take care of re-uploading or handling the
icon, screenshot to the reseller account too.

App metadata can have an `i18n` section. You can even set icon, screenshots in `i18n`.

After creating the metadata, you can upload its attachment like icon and screenshots. This
API will take care of adding the new/updated icon and or screenshot to their appropriate
section, even if your are using `/i18n/{LANG_CODE}` URL.

Reseller can set [`published`](#publish-and-block-apps) field in their **new** app.

> **NOTE** A reseller cannot override the `published` field if the app exists in master account

> PUT /v2/accounts/{RESELLER_ACCOUNT_ID}/applications/application/{APP_ID}

```shell
curl -v -X POST \
    -H "X-Auth-Token: {AUTH_TOKEN}" \
    http://{SERVER}:8000/v2/accounts/{RESELLER_ACCOUNT_ID}/applications/application/{UNIQUE_APP_ID} \
    -d '{
          "data": {
            "name": "avocado_phone",
            "i18n": {
              "en-US": {
                "label": "Avocado Phone",
                "description": "Avocado Phone"
              }
            },
            "author": "Avocado Farmer",
            "version": "1.0",
            "license": "-",
            "type": "commland_ui"
          }
        }'
```

Response is the full app doc same as fetching.

### Replace application metadata

Replace the whole app metadata with uploaded payload.

> POST /v2/accounts/{RESELLER_ACCOUNT_ID}/applications/application/{APP_ID}

```shell
curl -v -X POST \
    -H "X-Auth-Token: {AUTH_TOKEN}" \
    http://{SERVER}:8000/v2/accounts/{RESELLER_ACCOUNT_ID}/applications/application/{APP_ID}
```

Request and response is same as create API.

### Update specific fields of application metadata

Using this you can update only specific fields of applications metadata.

> PATCH /v2/accounts/{RESELLER_ACCOUNT_ID}/applications/application/{APP_ID}

```shell
curl -v -X PATCH \
    -H "X-Auth-Token: {AUTH_TOKEN}" \
    http://{SERVER}:8000/v2/accounts/{RESELLER_ACCOUNT_ID}/applications/application/{APP_ID}
```

### Delete application

> DELETE /v2/accounts/{RESELLER_ACCOUNT_ID}/applications/application/{APP_ID}

```shell
curl -v -X DELETE \
    -H "X-Auth-Token: {AUTH_TOKEN}" \
    http://{SERVER}:8000/v2/accounts/{RESELLER_ACCOUNT_ID}/applications/application/{APP_ID}
```

### Fetch icon by App ID

> **NOTE** You can also add `/i18n/{LANG_CODE}` to the URL before `applications` to work
> with specific language, `/accounts/{RESELLER_ACCOUNT_ID}/i18n/de-DE/applications/application/{APP_ID}/...`

> GET /v2/accounts/{RESELLER_ACCOUNT_ID}/applications/application/{APP_ID}/icon

```shell
curl -v -X GET \
    -H "X-Auth-Token: {AUTH_TOKEN}" \
    http://{SERVER}:8000/v2/accounts/{RESELLER_ACCOUNT_ID}/applications/application/{APP_ID}/icon
```

### Add or replace icon by App ID

> **NOTE** You can also add `/i18n/{LANG_CODE}` to the URL before `applications` to work
> with specific language, `/accounts/{RESELLER_ACCOUNT_ID}/i18n/de-DE/applications/application/{APP_ID}/...`

This API will take care of adding the new/updated icon and or screenshot to their appropriate
section, even if your are using `/i18n/{LANG_CODE}` URL.

> POST /v2/accounts/{RESELLER_ACCOUNT_ID}/applications/application/{APP_ID}/icon

```shell
curl -v -X POST \
    -H "X-Auth-Token: {AUTH_TOKEN}" \
    -H "Content-Type: multipart/form-data" \
    -F 'file=@sticky-mustache.png; type=image/png' \
    http://{SERVER}:8000/v2/accounts/{RESELLER_ACCOUNT_ID}/applications/application/{APP_ID}/icon
```

### Delete icon by App ID

> **NOTE** You can also add `/i18n/{LANG_CODE}` to the URL before `applications` to work
> with specific language, `/accounts/{RESELLER_ACCOUNT_ID}/i18n/de-DE/applications/application/{APP_ID}/...`

> DELETE /v2/accounts/{RESELLER_ACCOUNT_ID}/applications/application/applicationcon

This API will take care of adding the new/updated icon and or screenshot to their appropriate
section, even if your are using `/i18n/{LANG_CODE}` URL.

```shell
curl -v -X DELETE \
    -H "X-Auth-Token: {AUTH_TOKEN}" \
    http://{SERVER}:8000/v2/accounts/{RESELLER_ACCOUNT_ID}/applications/application/{APP_ID}/icon
```

### Fetch screenshot by App ID

> **NOTE** `{SCREENSHOT_ID}` is the index of screenshot name in the screenshots array.
> **NOTE** You can also add `/i18n/{LANG_CODE}` to the URL before `applications` to work
> with specific language, `/accounts/{RESELLER_ACCOUNT_ID}/i18n/de-DE/applications/application/{APP_ID}/...`

> GET /v2/accounts/{RESELLER_ACCOUNT_ID}/applications/application/{APP_ID}/screenshots/{SCREENSHOT_ID}

```shell
curl -v -X GET \
    -H "X-Auth-Token: {AUTH_TOKEN}" \
    http://{SERVER}:8000/v2/accounts/{RESELLER_ACCOUNT_ID}/applications/application/{APP_ID}/screenshots/{SCREENSHOT_ID}
```

### Append a screenshot to the array by App ID

> **NOTE** `{SCREENSHOT_ID}` is the index of screenshot name in the screenshots array.
> **NOTE** You can also add `/i18n/{LANG_CODE}` to the URL before `applications` to work
> with specific language, `/accounts/{RESELLER_ACCOUNT_ID}/i18n/de-DE/applications/application/{APP_ID}/...`

This API will take care of adding the new/updated icon and or screenshot to their appropriate
section, even if your are using `/i18n/{LANG_CODE}` URL.

> POST /v2/accounts/{RESELLER_ACCOUNT_ID}/applications/application/{APP_ID}/screenshots/{SCREENSHOT_ID}

```shell
curl -v -X POST \
    -H "X-Auth-Token: {AUTH_TOKEN}" \
    -H "Content-Type: multipart/form-data" \
    -F 'file=@sticky-mustache.png; type=image/png' \
    http://{SERVER}:8000/v2/accounts/{RESELLER_ACCOUNT_ID}/applications/application/{APP_ID}/screenshots/{SCREENSHOT_ID}
```

### Delete screenshot by App ID

> **NOTE** `{SCREENSHOT_ID}` is the index of screenshot name in the screenshots array.
> **NOTE** You can also add `/i18n/{LANG_CODE}` to the URL before `applications` to work
> with specific language, `/accounts/{RESELLER_ACCOUNT_ID}/i18n/de-DE/applications/application/{APP_ID}/...`

This API will take care of adding the new/updated icon and or screenshot to their appropriate
section, even if your are using `/i18n/{LANG_CODE}` URL.

> DELETE /v2/accounts/{RESELLER_ACCOUNT_ID}/applications/application/{APP_ID}/screenshots/{SCREENSHOT_ID}

```shell
curl -v -X DELETE \
    -H "X-Auth-Token: {AUTH_TOKEN}" \
    http://{SERVER}:8000/v2/accounts/{RESELLER_ACCOUNT_ID}/applications/application/{APP_ID}/screenshots/{SCREENSHOT_ID}
```

## Blocklist

A master or reseller account and restrict their sub-accounts of accessing to app by creating a block app
document in their account.

When a sub-account user (either admin or regular user) tries to list apps available in their account, if the app is blocked
by their reseller or master they won't be able to see the app is available.


### Summary of applications blocklisted

> GET /v2/accounts/{RESELLER_ACCOUNT_ID}/applications/{APP_TYPE}/blocklists

Lists apps that are block for sub-accounts underneath the `{RESELLER_ACCOUNT_ID}`.

```shell
curl -v -X GET \
    -H "X-Auth-Token: {AUTH_TOKEN}" \
    http://{SERVER}:8000/v2/accounts/{RESELLER_ACCOUNT_ID}/applications/commland_ui/blocklists
```

**Example successful response:**

```json
{
  "metadata": {},
  "data": [
    {
      "app_id": "edfd59e0b5c65aabb6d701901f4dfd37",
      "app_type": "commland_ui"
    }
  ],
  "status": "success"
}
```

### Block an app

Master or reseller can block specific for their sub-accounts.

> PUT /v2/accounts/{RESELLER_ACCOUNT_ID}/applications/{APP_TYPE}/{APP_ID}/block

```shell
curl -v -X PUT \
    -H "X-Auth-Token: {AUTH_TOKEN}" \
    -d '{"data":{"app_id":APP_ID}}' \
    http://{SERVER}:8000/v2/accounts/{RESELLER_ACCOUNT_ID}/applications/commland_ui/{APP_ID}/block
```

Response:

```json
{
  "metadata": {
    "id": "edfd59e0b5c65aabb6d701901f4dfd37_commland_ui_blocklist",
    "created": 63855123680,
    "modified": 63855123680
  },
  "data": {
    "app_id": "edfd59e0b5c65aabb6d701901f4dfd37",
    "app_type": "commland_ui",
    "id": "edfd59e0b5c65aabb6d701901f4dfd37_commland_ui_blocklist"
  },
  "status": "success"
}
```

### Fetch blocklist by App ID

> GET /v2/accounts/{RESELLER_ACCOUNT_ID}/applications/{APP_TYPE}/{APP_ID}/block

```shell
curl -v -X GET \
    -H "X-Auth-Token: {AUTH_TOKEN}" \
    http://{SERVER}:8000/v2/accounts/{RESELLER_ACCOUNT_ID}/applications/commland_ui/{APP_ID}/block
```

Response:

```json
{
  "metadata": {
    "id": "edfd59e0b5c65aabb6d701901f4dfd37_commland_ui_blocklist",
    "created": 63855123680,
    "modified": 63855123680
  },
  "data": {
    "app_id": "edfd59e0b5c65aabb6d701901f4dfd37",
    "app_type": "commland_ui",
    "id": "edfd59e0b5c65aabb6d701901f4dfd37_commland_ui_blocklist"
  },
  "status": "success"
}
```

### Replace blocklist by App ID

> POST /v2/accounts/{RESELLER_ACCOUNT_ID}/applications/{APP_TYPE}/{APP_ID}/block

```shell
curl -v -X POST \
    -H "X-Auth-Token: {AUTH_TOKEN}" \
    http://{SERVER}:8000/v2/accounts/{RESELLER_ACCOUNT_ID}/applications/commland_ui/{APP_ID}/block \
    -d '{ "data": { "custom_field": "test" } }'
```

Response:

```json
{
  "metadata": {
    "id": "edfd59e0b5c65aabb6d701901f4dfd37_commland_ui_blocklist",
    "created": 63855123680,
    "modified": 63855123680
  },
  "data": {
    "app_id": "edfd59e0b5c65aabb6d701901f4dfd37",
    "app_type": "commland_ui",
    "custom_field": "test",
    "id": "edfd59e0b5c65aabb6d701901f4dfd37_commland_ui_blocklist"
  },
  "status": "success"
}
```

### Delete blocklist by App ID

> DELETE /v2/accounts/{RESELLER_ACCOUNT_ID}/applications/{APP_TYPE}/{APP_ID}/block

```shell
curl -v -X DELETE \
    -H "X-Auth-Token: {AUTH_TOKEN}" \
    http://{SERVER}:8000/v2/accounts/{RESELLER_ACCOUNT_ID}/applications/commland_ui/{APP_ID}/block
```

Response:

```json
{
  "metadata": {
    "id": "edfd59e0b5c65aabb6d701901f4dfd37_commland_ui_blocklist",
    "created": 63855123680,
    "modified": 63855124082,
    "deleted": true
  },
  "data": {
    "app_id": "edfd59e0b5c65aabb6d701901f4dfd37",
    "app_type": "commland_ui",
    "custom_field": "test",
    "id": "edfd59e0b5c65aabb6d701901f4dfd37_commland_ui_blocklist"
  },
  "status": "success"
}
```

## Entitlements

Entitlement provides mechanism to admin of an account to enabled the app for their account
and control how it can be accessed by the users in their account.

Admins can usually use App Exchange to [list available apps](#list-available-apps-to-the-account)
and create a new entitlement for apps they want their user to access.

Entitlement has the following types:

- `all`: All users in the account have access to the app
- `admins`: Only admin users have access
- `specific`: Only specific User with matching user Ids have access to the app
    - If type is `all` or `admins` you MUST remove `users` fields. If type is `specific` you
      should include `users` with a list of user IDs.

After setting entitlement, [end users can list the apps](#list-allowed-app-for-end-user) they have access.

### Entitlement schema

Schema for Entitlement applications

Key | Description | Type | Default | Required | Support Level
--- | ----------- | ---- | ------- | -------- | -------------
`type` | Type of entitlement granted or users with the entitlement | `string(all|admin|specific)` |   | `true` |
`users` | Specific User IDs granting access to the app if type is `specific` | `string()` |   | `false` | []


### Entitlements Summary

> GET /v2/accounts/{ACCOUNT_ID}/applications/{APP_TYPE}/entitlements


```shell
curl -v -X GET \
    -H "X-Auth-Token: {AUTH_TOKEN}" \
    http://{SERVER}:8000/v2/accounts/{ACCOUNT_ID}/applications/commland_ui/entitlements
```

Response:

```json
{
  "metadata": {},
  "data": [
    {
      "app_id": "edfd59e0b5c65aabb6d701901f4dfd37",
      "app_type": "commland_ui",
      "type": "admins"
    }
  ],
  "status": "success"
}
```

### Fetch entitlement by App ID

> GET /v2/accounts/{ACCOUNT_ID}/applications/{APP_TYPE}/{APP_ID}/entitlement

```shell
curl -v -X GET \
    -H "X-Auth-Token: {AUTH_TOKEN}" \
    http://{SERVER}:8000/v2/accounts/{ACCOUNT_ID}/applications/{APP_TYPE}/{APP_ID}/entitlement
```

Response:

```json
{
  "metadata": {
    "id": "edfd59e0b5c65aabb6d701901f4dfd37_commland_ui_entitlement",
    "created": 63855124789,
    "modified": 63855124789
  },
  "data": {
    "type": "specific",
    "users": [
      "89eea66937ac45aee3f538a022fd55c0",
      "2eaa86d0e47b8ba965d000cccd95aa5c"
    ],
    "app_id": "edfd59e0b5c65aabb6d701901f4dfd37",
    "app_type": "commland_ui",
    "id": "edfd59e0b5c65aabb6d701901f4dfd37_commland_ui_entitlement"
  },
  "status": "success"
}
```

### Create entitlement

> PUT /v2/accounts/{ACCOUNT_ID}/applications/{APP_TYPE}/{APP_ID}/entitlement

For example to restrict the app in the account to only specific users:

```shell
curl -v -X PUT \
    -H "X-Auth-Token: {AUTH_TOKEN}" \
    -d '{"data": {"type": "specific","users": ["89eea66937ac45aee3f538a022fd55c0","2eaa86d0e47b8ba965d000cccd95aa5c"]}}}' \
    http://{SERVER}:8000/v2/accounts/{ACCOUNT_ID}/applications/{APP_TYPE}/entitlements
```

Response:

```json
{
  "metadata": {
    "id": "edfd59e0b5c65aabb6d701901f4dfd37_commland_ui_entitlement",
    "created": 63855124789,
    "modified": 63855124789
  },
  "data": {
    "type": "specific",
    "users": [
      "89eea66937ac45aee3f538a022fd55c0",
      "2eaa86d0e47b8ba965d000cccd95aa5c"
    ],
    "app_id": "edfd59e0b5c65aabb6d701901f4dfd37",
    "app_type": "commland_ui",
    "id": "edfd59e0b5c65aabb6d701901f4dfd37_commland_ui_entitlement"
  },
  "status": "success"
}
```

### Replace entitlement by App ID

> POST /v2/accounts/{ACCOUNT_ID}/applications/{APP_TYPE}/{APP_ID}/entitlement

```shell
curl -v -X POST \
    -H "X-Auth-Token: {AUTH_TOKEN}" \
    http://{SERVER}:8000/v2/accounts/{ACCOUNT_ID}/applications/{APP_TYPE}/commland_ui/entitlement
```

### Delete entitlement by App ID

> DELETE /v2/accounts/{ACCOUNT_ID}/applications/{APP_TYPE}/{APP_ID}/entitlement

```shell
curl -v -X DELETE \
    -H "X-Auth-Token: {AUTH_TOKEN}" \
    http://{SERVER}:8000/v2/accounts/{ACCOUNT_ID}/applications/{APP_TYPE}/{APP_ID}/entitlement
```

## List available apps to the account

Admin users of any account can use this API to list the available apps that they can give
their users entitlement. This API is intended to be used by admin users inside app
exchange.

### Summary

> GET /v2/accounts/{ACCOUNT_ID}/applications/{APP_TYPE}

Lists available applications to the account.

```shell
curl -v -X GET \
    -H "X-Auth-Token: {AUTH_TOKEN}" \
    http://{SERVER}:8000/v2/accounts/{ACCOUNT_ID}/applications
```

**Response example:**

```json
{
  "metadata": {},
  "data": [
    {
      "version": "1.0",
      "urls": {
        "howto": "https://youtube.com",
        "documentation": "https://avocado_toasts.com/doc"
      },
      "type": "commland_ui",
      "tags": [
        "end_user"
      ],
      "screenshots": [],
      "price": 0,
      "name": "avocado_toasts",
      "masqueradable": true,
      "license": "-",
      "icon": "icon.png",
      "i18n": {
        "en-US": {
          "label": "Avocado Toasts",
          "description": "Avocado Toasts"
        }
      },
      "author": "Imaginary Cool Company",
      "id": "edfd59e0b5c65aabb6d701901f4dfd37"
    }
  ],
  "status": "success"
}
```

### Fetch an available app

> GET /v2/accounts/{ACCOUNT_ID}/applications/{APP_TYPE}/{APP_ID}

### Fetch an available app icon

> GET /v2/accounts/{ACCOUNT_ID}/applications/{APP_TYPE}/{APP_ID}/icon

### Fetch an available app screenshot at specific index

> GET /v2/accounts/{ACCOUNT_ID}/applications/{APP_TYPE}/{APP_ID}/screenshots/{SCREENSHOT_ID}


## List allowed app for end user

UI app loader can use these APIs to list the applications that a logged in user have
access into.

### Summary of allowed app

> GET /v2/accounts/{ACCOUNT_ID}/users/{USER_ID}/applications/{APP_TYPE}

Lists applications that a user have access into.

```shell
curl -v -X GET \
    -H "X-Auth-Token: {AUTH_TOKEN}" \
    http://{SERVER}:8000/v2/accounts/{ACCOUNT_ID}/users/{USER_ID}/applications
```

**Response example:**

```json
{
  "metadata": {},
  "data": [
    {
      "version": "1.0",
      "urls": {
        "howto": "https://youtube.com",
        "documentation": "https://avocado_toasts.com/doc"
      },
      "type": "commland_ui",
      "tags": [
        "end_user"
      ],
      "screenshots": [],
      "price": 0,
      "name": "avocado_toasts",
      "masqueradable": true,
      "license": "-",
      "icon": "icon.png",
      "i18n": {
        "en-US": {
          "label": "Avocado Toasts",
          "description": "Avocado Toasts"
        }
      },
      "author": "Imaginary Cool Company",
      "id": "edfd59e0b5c65aabb6d701901f4dfd37"
    }
  ],
  "status": "success"
}
```

### Fetch an allowed app by App ID

> GET /v2/accounts/{ACCOUNT_ID}/users/{USER_ID}/applications/{APP_TYPE}/{APP_ID}

```shell
curl -v -X GET \
    -H "X-Auth-Token: {AUTH_TOKEN}" \
    http://{SERVER}:8000/v2/accounts/{ACCOUNT_ID}/users/{USER_ID}/applications/commland_ui/{APP_ID}
```

**Success response example:**

```json
{
  "metadata": {
    "id": "edfd59e0b5c65aabb6d701901f4dfd37",
    "created": 63854068906,
    "modified": 63855116932
  },
  "data": {
    "version": "1.0",
    "urls": {
      "howto": "https://youtube.com",
      "documentation": "https://avocado_toasts.com/doc"
    },
    "type": "commland_ui",
    "tags": [
      "end_user"
    ],
    "screenshots": [],
    "price": 0,
    "name": "avocado_toasts",
    "masqueradable": true,
    "license": "-",
    "icon": "icon.png",
    "i18n": {
      "en-US": {
        "label": "Avocado Toasts",
        "description": "Avocado Toasts"
      }
    },
    "author": "Imaginary Cool Company",
    "id": "edfd59e0b5c65aabb6d701901f4dfd37"
  },
  "status": "success"
}
```

### Fetch allowed app icon by App ID

> **NOTE** You can also add `/i18n/{LANG_CODE}` to the URL before `applications` to work
> with specific language, `/accounts/{ACCOUNT_ID}/i18n/de-DE/...`

> GET /v2/accounts/{ACCOUNT_ID}/users/{USER_ID}/applications/{APP_TYPE}/{APP_ID}/icon

```shell
curl -v -X GET \
    -H "X-Auth-Token: {AUTH_TOKEN}" \
    http://{SERVER}:8000/v2/accounts/{ACCOUNT_ID}/users/{USER_ID}/applications/{APP_TYPE}/{APP_ID}/icon
```

### Fetch screenshot by App ID

> **NOTE** `{SCREENSHOT_ID}` is the index of screenshot name in the screenshots array.
> **NOTE** You can also add `/i18n/{LANG_CODE}` to the URL before `applications` to work
> with specific language, `/accounts/{ACCOUNT_ID}/i18n/de-DE/applications/{APP_TYPE}/{APP_ID}/...`

> GET /v2/accounts/{ACCOUNT_ID}/users/{USER_ID}/applications/{APP_TYPE}/{APP_ID}/screenshots/{SCREENSHOT_ID}

```shell
curl -v -X GET \
    -H "X-Auth-Token: {AUTH_TOKEN}" \
    http://{SERVER}:8000/v2/accounts/{ACCOUNT_ID}/users/{USER_ID}/applications/{APP_TYPE}/{APP_ID}/screenshots/{SCREENSHOT_ID}
```
